docs: Webhooks - docs extended with supported event, testexecution and test… (#4338)
kubeshop/testkube: docs/docs/articles/webhooks.mdx

</Tabs>

### Webhook Payload Variables

> Webhook payload can contain Event-specific variables - they will be replaced with actual data when events occurs. In the above examples, only the event `Id` is being sent. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webhook payload can contain **event-specific** variables - they will be replaced with actual data when the events occurs. In the above examples, only the event `Id` is being sent. 
```

However, any of [supported Event Variables](#supported-event-variables) can be used.

> For example, following payload:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following payload:
```

```
{"text": "Event {{ .Type_ }} - Test '{{ .TestExecution.TestName }}' execution ({{ .TestExecution.Number }}) finished with '{{ .TestExecution.ExecutionResult.Status }}' status"}
```
will result in:
```
{"text": "Event end-test-success - Test 'postman-executor-smoke' execution (948) finished with 'passed' status"}
```

#### testkube-api-server ENV variables

> In addition to Event-specific variables it's also possible to pass testkube-api-server ENV variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to event-specific variables, it's also possible to pass testkube-api-server ENV variables:
```

- testexecution
- testsuiteexecution

## Supported Event Variables

### Event-specific variables:
- `Id` - event ID (for example, `2a20c7da-3b77-4ea9-a33d-403187d3e9e6`)
- `Resource`
- `ResourceId`

> - `Type_` - event Type (for example, `start-test`, `end-test,success`, etc. All available trigger events can be found in the [Supported Event types](#supported-event-types) section)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Type_` - event Type (for example, `start-test`, `end-test,success`, etc. All available trigger events can be found in the [Supported Event types](#supported-event-types) section).
```

- `TestExecution` - test execution details (example: [TestExecution (Execution)](#testexecution-execution) section)
- `TestSuiteExecution` - test suite execution details (example: [TestSuiteExecution](#testsuiteexecution) section)
- `ClusterName` - cluster name
- `Envs` (API-server ENV variables) - list of Testkube API-Server ENV variables

> Full Event data model can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_event.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full Event Data Model can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_event.go).
```

- `TestType` - Test type (for example, `postman/collection`)
- `Name` -  Execution name (for example, `postman-executor-smoke-937)
- `Number` - Execution number (for example, `937`)
- `Envs` -  List of ENV variables for specific Test (if defined)
- `Command` - Command executed inside the Pod (for example, `newman`)
- `Args` -  Command arguments (for example, `run <runPath> -e <envFile> --reporters cli,json --reporter-json-export <reportFile>`)
- `Variables` - List of variables
- `Content` - Test content
- `StartTime` - Test start time (for example, `2023-09-06 19:23:34.543433547 +0000 UTC`)
- `EndTime` - Time when the test execution finished (for example, `2023-09-06 19:23:42.221493031 +0000 UTC`)
- `Duration` - Test duration in seconds (for example, `7.68s`)
- `DurationMs` - Test duration in miliseconds (for example, `7678`)
- `ExecutionResult` - Execution result (https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_event.go)
- `Labels` Test labels (for example, `[core-tests:executors executor:postman-executor test-type:postman-collection],`)
- `RunningContext` - Running context - how the test has been triggered (for example, `user-ui`)

> Full Execution data model can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_execution.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full Execution data model can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_execution.go).
```

### TestSuiteExecution:

- `Id` - TestSuiteExecution ID (for example, `64f8d5b2712890925aea51dc`)
- `Name` - TestSuite name (for example, `ts-executor-postman-smoke-tests-472`)
- `Status` - TestSuite execution status (for example, `running` or `passed`)
- `Envs` - List of ENV variables
- `Variables` - List of variables
- `StartTime` - Test start time (for example, `2023-09-06 19:23:34.543433547 +0000 UTC`)
- `EndTime` - Time when the test execution finished (for example, `2023-09-06 19:23:42.221493031 +0000 UTC`)
- `Duration` - Test duration in seconds (for example, `7.68s`)
- `DurationMs` - Test duration in miliseconds (for example, `7678`)
- `StepResults`
- `Labels` - TestSuite labels (for example, `[app:testkube testsuite:executor-postman-smoke-tests]`)
- `RunningContext` - Running context - how the TestSuite has been triggered (for example, `user-ui`)

> Full TestSuiteExecution data model can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_test_suite_execution.go)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The full TestSuiteExecution data model can be found [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/pkg/api/v1/testkube/model_test_suite_execution.go).
```

> ## Additional examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional Examples
```

### Microsoft Teams
Webhooks can also be used to send messages to Microsoft Teams channels.

> First, you need to create an incoming webhook at Teams for specific channel. You can check how to do it at Teams Docs [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/webhooks-and-connectors/how-to/add-incoming-webhook?tabs=dotnet#create-incoming-webhooks-1). After your Teams incoming webhook is created, you can use it with Testkube webhooks - just use the URL provided (will probably look like this: `https://xxxxx.webhook.office.com/xxxxxxxxx`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need to create an incoming webhook in Teams for a specific channel. You can see how to do it in the Teams Docs [here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/webhooks-and-connectors/how-to/add-incoming-webhook?tabs=dotnet#create-incoming-webhooks-1). After your Teams incoming webhook is created, you can use it with Testkube webhooks - just use the URL provided (it will probably look like this: `https://xxxxx.webhook.office.com/xxxxxxxxx`).
```

> In order to send the message when test execution finished, the following Webhook can be used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to send the message when test execution finishes, the following Webhook can be used:
```

```
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Webhook
metadata:
  name: example-webhook-teams
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  events:
  - end-test-success
  - end-test-failed
  - end-test-aborted
  - end-test-timeout
  uri: https://xxxxx.webhook.office.com/xxxxxxxxx
  payloadTemplate: "{\"text\": \"Test '{{ .TestExecution.TestName }}' execution ({{ .TestExecution.Number }}) finished with '{{ .TestExecution.ExecutionResult.Status }}' status\"}\n"
```

It will result in:

```
{"text": "Test 'postman-executor-smoke' execution (949) finished with 'passed' status"}
```

> and message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the message:
```
